# Handling API keys

## Problem

How do we provide API keys to customers?

### Proposed onboarding

1. User got to the "user settings" page
2. User selects "Generate API key"
3. The API key is paired back to that user's data
4. The user can call the shapes API with that key instead of the JWT

### Proposed usage

Essentially just `curl --header 'Authorization: Bearer <your token>' --url mercator.tech/our-route`

### Proposed implementation

API keys are UUIDs attached to user-organization (organization-member) pairs.
We have a table of API keys for each member

We have API key-related routes, all login-protected:

  - `POST /keys` to generate a new key
  - `GET /keys` to read the current API key
  - `PATCH /keys` to rotate the current API key out for a new one, instantly invalidating the old key

These API keys are stored in a Postgres table, ``program_access_keys``, with the following schema:

```
user_id | BIGINT | ID of the user creating the key (FK join to users)
organization_id | UUID | UUID of the organization of the user creating the key (FK join to organizations)
encrypted_api_key | VARCHAR | Fernet-encrypted UUID
created_at | TIMESTAMP | Self-explanatory
last_seen_at | TIMESTAMP | Last time the API key was used to access Mercator
```

We add middleware to read for the API token.

On each request to an API key-enabled endpoint, we check if the token is present. If not, we
issue a 403 error.

## Open questions

- How does the API get passed? Bearer token? Query param? Other header? What's the best way to do this?
- How does FastAPI handle API tokens such that they'll appear in the Swagger docs?
- How do we expire a token? Do we expire a token?

## Out-of-scope

- User scopes (read/write, etc) -- all API tokens have read/write scope by default.
- Rate limiting -- no rate limits for now

## Alternatives

- [Set up API in Auth0](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/auth0-overview/set-up-apis)
